Hi.
We didn't this lecture regrowing to see how we can create custom cells in our table views so we can
display the user's whatever we want in our table views.
So far we have been displaying only texts.
Remember we created cells and we have said that sale that tax labeled text is this.
But this time we don't want that because we want to show users the image we want to show users the comment
the Post owner the Like button the like label and whatever we want in the past self.
So let me open this pains from the left and right button and we have to go to mean that storyboard because
that's where we're going to do this operation.
We don't even have a table view in our feed.
We have controller right now.
So first thing to do is should be opening our library and bringing in a table view.
So this is going to be a regular table view like we have been doing so far.
OK.
So bring in and in this view controller we will only have our table view.
So I'm going to come over here and give zero constraints.
OK.
As usual so it will stretch out all the way to the edges and then we should find a way to create a new
cell in here and design that cell rather than creating this cell in the code in the feed we have controller
table view.
Remember we had said that let's sell is a UI table you sell and sell the text labeled a tax on everything.
Right now we don't want that.
So first let me open to the assistant editor and bring in this table view controller.
OK.
I'm going to call this table view.
So this is working.
That's good.
And let me delete all of these comments from here and then we're good to go and do what we have to do
to create a new cell.
So if you come over to the attributes you will see this prototype so So does this default 0.
And if you make this one there is a cell appearing in here as you can see this is a table view so.
So let me drag this down a little bit to make this a little bit bigger because that's going to be our
cell.
That's the cell that we will be using in the table.
So we can design it in the way that we want.
Okay.
That's what we use we use prototype cells to create new cells.
I use them in our table view so that we can put anything we want in there.
So rather than just showing a tax I'm going to go in and bring in some image views bringing some labels
and everything.
So let me drag this down a little bit and if you open your library you can drag in whatever you want.
So please choose an image view and put it over here.
So we will be displaying the pulsed image in the Image View for example.
So let me make this a little bit bigger.
OK because we're building an Instagram clone and the image is the most important part above the image.
Maybe we can have a label displaying the user name or user email.
OK.
So let me make this one big and a little bit bigger here.
So that's good.
OK.
Let me in line this a little bit more and for label I'm just going to say user name or user email of
course we want to use it like this.
But for right now I'm going to give it a name just to see how it looks like on my prototype so.
So below my UI Image view I want to have another label in which I will show the comments.
Right.
So let me bring in a new label here.
So this is where we're going to show the comments of course you may want to have a bigger label or maybe
text fields in order to show a longer comments.
But in order to keep things simple I'm just going to call this comments and later on I'm going to add
a new button.
Right.
So I have my user e-mail I have my image and comment.
Now I have to have a like button here as well.
Remember our first app that we have seen in the first lecture of the section.
We had that like button here right.
So let me make this a little bit bigger and let goatee attributes we can call is like.
So here let me put this a little bit left so that it will end line here.
Yep.
And we need labels to show the like count.
OK.
This will only like the current past but we have to actually count the likes and we have to show them
in a label in their right hand side on the bottom so.
So let me bring in another label here.
It's going to be our like count label.
So let me make this a little bit bigger and align it to the right.
So it will and line to the right edge of the image.
OK so I'm gonna call the zero so we will understand.
This is the like count and I believe that's it.
That's what our prototype cell will look like.
So this is our pulsed so if we don't like it we can always come back later and add any was delete existing
ones and change the way it looks.
If we want to and we have to give this an identifier but make sure that you select this table view self
OK in the table view s I'm gonna call this cell and we will need this identifier so remember that we're
creating a cell right here and we have to define it in the code as well.
And another new thing for you in order to drag and drop this into a view controller we're going to have
to create a cocoa touch cause only for this table view cell.
So yes we have a cocoa touch glass for table view cells as well.
So if you come over here and say new file and select cocoa touch class we're not going to go for UI
controller this time but we want UI table view s ok not table view controller UI table view so and you
can change the name to feed Sal for example and after that.
Make sure Swift is selected on his next.
This will create a cocoa touch glass only for our feet.
So we going to assign this to our feed cell and then drag and drop everything in here as you can see
this is a UI table view cell rather than UI view controller right now.
So go back to your main story board and we will start to drag and drop everything inside of our newly
created cocoa touch class of course.
Before that you have to select the cell OK.
And make sure you go to identity inspector and in the class find the feed cell and they sign the feed
cell to our cells so that this view and our view controller is connected together.
So now we can start dragging and dropping everything inside of our feed cell.
So let me click over here and let me find the views one by one and define it here.
So let me drag here and say user e-mail.
OK.
User e-mail label.
So this is going to be my label and let's go for comment labels.
So this is comments label of course we we're going to have other labels an image view as well.
So let's bring in the image view.
So this is an eye user image view of our post image view whatever you want.
OK.
User image view and so here we have a button or another button and like count labeled right.
I'm going to take this zero.
I'm gonna make sure I'm selecting the right things.
Yes I want this one so I can just drag and drop from here as well.
I'm going to call this like label because later on I'm going to go for like button.
So make sure button is selected and bring in as bring it in as an action so like button clicked.
OK.
So we are done for our feed cell I believe.
Now let's give some constraints.
Let's say reset to suggest that constraints or update constraints.
Make sure you give all these constraints to here and make sure you give width and height constraints
to your UI image view as value in order to prevent anything from going wrong.
OK.
Like we used to do before.
So this is our UI table view South cocoa to each class.
OK.
As you can see we have this awake from naps.
So this is kind of the load in the UI table view cell in regular controllers if you have we did load
and in here I believe we have to make sure that table view is properly set up.
So let me just run this for right now we're going to see an empty table view I believe.
And then later on we're going to add the delegates and other stuff as well.
So let me see the the empty table view.
Yep.
We see the empty table view right now I'm going to assign my cell as is my created cell by us.
So let me go over here as a UI table view delegates.
OK.
And UI table view data source.
It's not auto completing again.
So let me close this down and wait for it to come refresh.
OK.
So let's say table where you delegate self say will view data source self.
Yeah it's not coming.
And I believe we have to do command B to build this.
Yeah.
We're getting an error.
So let me click on this I see what error do we have.
Yeah.
We're you're not getting an error actually because we haven't implemented the number of roads in S for
oh I think the part that's why we're getting this error but it doesn't auto complete it for me.
So I believe if you come across in a situation like this all you have to do is just close this down
okay and open it one more time.
So let's closes down and let's refresh this.
Let's go to IRS and find the insta clone firebase.
Make sure you select the workspace rather than work project.
And here you go.
Let's try to write and it doesn't show up really.
So let me clean this and it says that it's indexing and after indexing completes.
Yes.
Now we can see all the auto completion.
Now I can go for a number of rows in section.
OK.
And in here I'm just going to return 10 as an example later on we will change this and we need s for
our index path and that's where we connect our newly created cell with our table view.
Right.
We generally say cell is UI table view cell but that's not what we want at this point.
Rather we are going to say table view.
OK we are referred to this table we have here and we are going to say that D Q reusable cell.
So that's the way we want these two reusable salvage identifier and for index path that's how we connect
our created prototype cell to does table view because we have that identify right and index that is
indexed spot as given in the function as we how to cast is that speed cell and it will work because
we have the feed cell we have controller file right and we have to return this cell because this function
expects us to return a UI table we have so great.
So let me do a command B and see if this area will go away.
Yep.
Everything seems to be working fine.
So let me show you how cool to work with the UI table view cells because if you say sounds out you can
actually reach the comment label you can actually reach the like label D labels and image views that
you have defined previously.
Now I can't change those values from here.
Now I can just say it's spelled out user email text is going to be something like test and you can just
go for small dots like label.
That tax is going to be zero for example and let's say Sal dot comment label dot tax is going to be
a comment.
OK.
In fact let's do this something like user at email dot com to see how it looks like and let's say self
doubt image view user image view not image view user image view that image is a UI image and open parentheses
and find names and just give the select that PSG as a dummy variable in here because later on we're
going to replace it with our post image and that's good for testing this.
So let me create this and if this works out we will see 10 rows of our customized cell.
OK.
And if I run this.
Yeah it gives me some kind of error I believe.
Yeah.
We have a crashing here and it doesn't see the table we've okayed says that table view is nil and it
shouldn't be.
And if you're coming across in a situation like this all you had to do is check the connections.
So let me go to main story boards.
OK and let me find our table for you.
So let me click on this table view.
Make sure you select the table view and if you go to those connections if you go to these outlets you
will see that table view is not connected to our feed view controller.
So let me open the feed we have controller even though we have done this before for a reason.
I believe this is some kind of bug.
So make sure you delete this and then we're going to define it again.
So let me drag and drop table view and make sure you take the table view.
OK.
So I'm going to call this table you one more time and this time as you can see we now see the connection.
It shouldn't happen really but I believe it's kind of a bug.
So maybe you can come across in a situation like this later on in your project.
So you know how to solve this.
So let's try this one more time let's open our simulator and again if this works out we're going to
see 10 rows filled with our customized so and.
Here you go.
Now we see our custom cells.
Now we see the e-mail we see the image view.
We see the comment label like bottom and like labeled 10 times.
So that's great.
Now all we have to do is find a way to get all of this information from file your store so that we can
display them one by one in here.
And after getting this information displaying them is trivial because we already have this setup.
All we want to do is just fill up the arrays and show them to the users.
So that's what we're going to do within the next lecture.